# OTP_SERVICE
<h4>What is OTP?</h4>
<p><strong>*</strong>A One-Time Password, or OTP, is a unique code generated by a separate device or service, typically a mobile app. It is used as a security measure to authenticate a user's identity and prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or systems.</p>
<h4>How to use Whatsapp OTP?</h4>
<p><strong>*</strong>With the use of the WhatsApp Business Platform, companies can now have communication with their customers that is both secure and convenient in both directions. This method requires the user to have a WhatsApp account linked to their phone number, and the OTP is sent to the WhatsApp account instead of the conventional SMS or email.</p>
<h4>How to implement WhatsApp OTP in your business?</h4>
<ol>
  <li><strong>Verify WhatApp business account: </strong>Before you can use WhatsApp OTP, ensure that your business has a verified WhatsApp Business Account.</li>
  <li><strong>Create Facebook Business Manager Account: </strong>Now that you have a WhatsApp business account, you need to create a Facebook Business Manager account.</li>
  <li><strong>User WhatsApp API: </strong>WhatsApp OTP is typically integrated using the WhatsApp Business API. This API allows you to send automated messages, including OTP, to users.</li>
  <li><strong>Send Test OTP Messages: </strong>Thoroughly test the OTP generation and delivery process.</li>
  <li><strong>Verify The OTP: </strong>After the user enters the OTP received, use the WhatsApp API to verify it.</li>
</ol>
<h4>WhatsApp OTP user case examples:</h4>
<ol>
  <li>Account verification</li>
  <li>Two factor authentication(2FA)</li>
  <li>Password Reset</li>
  <li>Transaction Confirmation</li>
  <li>Identity Verification for customer support</li>
  <li>Appointment and reservation confirmation</li>
  <li>Access to secure documents or content</li>
  <li>Reward Redemption</li>
  <li>Event Registration</li>
  <li>Secure file Sharing</li>
</ol>
<h4>How does WhatsApp OTP differ from Traditional SMS OTP?</h4>
<ol>
  <li><strong>Delivery Channel: </strong>WhatsApp OTP is delivered via WhatsApp messages while SMS OTP is sent through traditional text messages.</li>
  <li><strong>International Reach: </strong>WhatsApp OTP relies on internet connectivity, which makes it accessible to users with a data connection, regardless of their location. SMS OTP, while widely available, may face challenges with international SMS delivery and potential delays in certain regions.</li>
  <li><strong>Reliability and Delivery Rates: </strong>SMS OTP generally has higher delivery rates and reliability compared to whatsapp.</li>
  <li><strong>Integration: </strong>Integrating whatsapp OTP typically using the whatsapp business API or third party services. Which may involve a more complex setup. SMS OTP integration can be simpler and is often supported directly by mobile carriers or SMS gateway providers.</li>
</ol>
<h4>Benefits of using WhatsApp for instant OTP authentication:</h4>
<ol>
  <li>Enhanced security</li>
  <li>Convenience</li>
</ol>
<h4>Trial Account Problem</h4>
<p>In the Trial account when we add a user number(limit of 5 numbers) in the “to” list then the platform sends an OTP in the number for verification of the number which is very unnecessary for any OTP system application.</p>
<h4>How Solve This Problem</h4>
<p>So, to solve this problem we need to add our own number in WhatsApp cloud api (the number should not have any WhatsApp account previously) then we need to set up payment method after these step we can also setup permanent token by setting up system admin user after these all steps we can send message on any number without any limitation.</p>
<h3>Twilio</h3>
<p>Twilio is an American cloud communication platform as a service company. And it allows software developers to programmatically write a logic to get and send sms and to make and receive phone calls and also it supports other communication functions using these web service API.</p>
<h4>After creating a free account in Twilio we get this three things: </h4>
<ol>
  <li>Get a trial phone number</li>
  <li>Account SID(SID - Security Identifier)</li>
  <li>AUTH TOKEN</li>
</ol>
<h4>Procedure: </h4>
<li>First of all create an free account in Twilio</li>
<li>Because of the free account we can send OTP to only one number which we are given in time to verify</li>
<li>Then create a project, add necessary dependencies and implement logic for making the otp system.</li>
<h4>Steps of Project:</h4>
<ol>
  <li>Setting up the Spring Boot project</li>
  <li>Configuring WhatsApp API Credentials</li>
  <li>Implementing OTP sending Functionality</li>
</ol>
<h4>Stack: </h4>
<ul>
  <li>Java</li>
  <li>Spring Boot</li>
</ul>
